# OpenGL-Project
A 3D scene in OpenGL

This project taught me that design is not simple in programming. Even simple objects require a great deal of thought before they come to life. There is an enormous amount of work that goes into creating a 3D world and the objects inside that world. This project showed me how to look at something and break it down into smaller pieces that can be designed using the tools available. To successfully complete this project, I broke down my shape into triangles and used these simple shapes to create something completely different. I hope to take these new concepts with me and apply them to many different areas of my life. Just like OpenGL many of the problems we face in life can be broken down into something more attainable and quickly those small victories achieve the larger goal at hand. 

I developed this project very slowly adding one piece of functionality at a time. I quickly realized at the beginning of this project that OpenGL will not hold your hand. You need to understand everything that is happening to properly perform the task. Trying to add in functionality you don't fully understand yet will almost certainly result in major errors. With each new functionality requirement for the project came another small line of code that I needed to understand iterating through old code and adding one line at a time. Constant testing and updating created this final product. 

 The skills I learned in this course project stand further from the coding and projects involved and closer to important principles and ideologies. This class equipped me with a new perspective and understanding of projects themselves and how to take a large project and break it down into small parts. I learned how important it was to take things one step at a time and to get each piece correct the first time rather than pushing forward half a product. Computer science requires a fully developed final product for each segment. You can't expect to break down a project and under develop one area to allow more time for another. All areas of a software product need to be developed to the highest standard.
